# Blog Post 5

### What things are you going to do differently in practice now that you've had this course?

I learned a ton of really useful skills in this course that I know will serve me well going forward. One really helpful aspect of the course was the way that we were encouraged and guided as to how to find answers to programming questions on our own by using online resources and the larger R community. Knowing how to go about finding answers, where to look, how to phrase questions online to return useful information will all be invaluable in the future. Another thing that I learned over the course of the semester in this class was the benefit of taking a step back, taking a break, going for a walk, and getting some distance when you are really stuck on a problem. My instinct is usually to want to push forward until I can solve a problem or understand a concept. In this course I have learned that huge progress can be made by allowing yourself to take a break, which can allow your mind to wander a bit. I found that time and time again when I felt myself hitting a wall with a problem the best thing that I could do was to step away for a while, and usually a solution would come to me seemingly out of the blue. Going forward I will always make sure to prioritize breaks from sitting at a computer in the course of a big project as I have found that breaks (which provide a time for informal brainstorming) are an integral part of the mental work of programming.



### Data science (and statistics) is a huge field. What do you hope to do in relation to data science (and statistics) in your future career? What aspects/areas do you want to learn more about? 

I am just getting started in data science and honestly I am really excited about the diversity of applications in this field. I have a fairly diverse background, I studied history and pre-veterinary medicine as an undergrad, earned an MBA as well as an MAT, and taught secondary science (mostly chemistry, biology, and Earth science) for 10 years. As a result I am pretty open to data science jobs in many different areas of the field, from private business to government. 
