# Variable Selection

Variable selection is a difficult task. There are many different possible techniques that are widely used, such as forward, backward, best subset, and LASSO. I think that these can provide a good starting point in the variable selection process. These methods are easy to carry out with statistical software and can provide insight into what variables are likely to be important. While these methods of variable selection have drawbacks, when used as a guide for the data scientist in the variable selection process they can be helpful. The results of these methods can be used in combination with content knowledge about the data as a whole to help narrow the field of possible variables to use. 

It is also important to understand the context within which you are performing the regression modeling. If this is for a school assignment where all of the data is available for use in your analysis you would likely not be very concerned about how data like this might be collected in the future. If, on the other hand, you were undertaking this task in a professional setting you would likely be much more concerned with future data collection and the costs associated with that work. If a variable is extremely useful in your model but it is very expensive or otherwise difficult to collect data about, it may not be the best to include in your model even if it has good predictive power.

Overall variable selection involves trade offs. More complex models often perform well on training data, but the issue of overfitting your model to your data can be a problem when attempting to use the model on novel data that is not a part of the training set. The end goal of variable selection should be to include as few variables as possible that allow for accurate  prediction on future data. Variable selection techniques that are built into R and other statistical programming languages, such as forward selection, backward selection, etc. can provide a good starting point for the variable selection process as they can offer variables that may be of importance. Achieving a final mix of variables to be used in the model should be done with the results of these built in methods in mind, combined with how the model will be used in the real world (including costs and logistics associated with data collection), and at least some degree of content knowledge about the data as a whole.
