# This is my first blog post.

### What do you think being a data scientist is about? What do you see as the major duties and/or knowledge areas? What differences/similarities do you see between data scientists and statisticians?

The role of a data scientist is to act as a sort of bridge between business people/goals within an organization and the engineers. A data scientist can help to translate the needs of the organization from a business perspective into actionable requirements that the engineers can then build. A data scientist should have a solid background in statitics combined with the ability to understand business problems. They can use this to form questions that can be investigated using real world data to drive business decisions. The main difference between data scientists and statisticians is that statisticians are more "in the weeds" with mathematical concepts. Data scientists may not have as detailed or deep of a background in math but they do have a strong programming background often combined with more direct business experience. 

### How do you view yourself in relation to these two areas?

I think that my background, iterests, and goals are more closely aligned with that of a data scientist than with a statistician. I have an MBA from NC State and I took some statistics classes during the course of my undergraduate and graduate studies in the past. I am very interested in the practical applications of data science in helping to understand and tackle real-world problems.


