# Blog Post 3 - API Project


For project 2 we created a how to guide for how you can write your own functions to query APIs, return and process data, and do some basic exploratory data analysis. We worked specifically with the National Parks Service API.

One challenging aspect of much of the data returned from this API was the fact that a lot of the seemingly numeric data (like entrance cost or some related monetary measure) was not contained in a simple vector of numbers. More often than not this information was contained in longform answers, something like "The entrance fee to this park is $15 per person, or $30 er familiy" (not a real example, but just to highlight the issue). This presented problems when we got to the data exploration phase as we had to find variables that could more easiliy be converted to numeric. This made it difficult to try and create meaningful or interesting findings with our data, but we were still able to illustrate how you would go about undertaking exploratory data analysis.

The most difficult part of the logic for this project was really understanding how the process of retrieving data from an API works. Once I got the hang of that, and how to write functions to do this, the rest of the programming was much easier.

I think in the future I would like to spend more time identifying the data for the data exploration steps. As I said earlier, the data exploration was difficult because a lot of the data that was retruned was not easy to parse into a numeric format.

[Link to the Rendered github pages repo](https://kebreeze.github.io/558project2/)

[Link to regular repo for project 2](https://github.com/kebreeze/558project2.git)
